Consolas, 'Courier New', monospace
recruit & .net
" if recruiters cannot see you. they cannot hire you. "

create beleifs and assumption in employers
own professional title
introduce self as professional title

build your brand

reference this slides during job search

what will we accomploish
	• obtain knowledge about the difference between
           passive and active job search
	
	•  gain and utilize skill for being visible to recruiters.

	•  understand how passive job search is a very helpful
	  method for success in obtaining employment.
	
	•  learn how to troubleshoot your visibility so that it is
	  working for you
	
	•  gain awareness of the larger search ogoing on and how
	  recurit are looking for you right now

	•  passive vs active job serach
	     * think of this like peoples who fished for survival.
		-  do you actively fish or drop in a line in the water and
		  walk away, checking it very now and then?
			
		-  passive job serach can be like the "line in the water"
	
		-  as job seekers we often take on much of the active job
		  serach duties, but what about the companies/employers/
		  recruiters? what are they dooing
	
	      * Active
		-  more effective
			direct approach that combines passive job seeking with applications and networking
		-  resume visible and applications submitted
			 resume is post4ed job boards and you are actively submitting applications to open positions
		-  proactive networking
			 you are networking with recruiters, attend hiring events,
			and get your resume out there
	      * passive
		-  Why
			- each company has someone whose job it is to hire new employees
			- in other words, people are "seeking" new employees constantly
			- how "searchable" are you?
			- why do you want to be found?
			
			- one of the best things you can do for your job search is to ensure that you are
			 visible to the recruiters who search for you. one of the saddest truths is that
			 we are not visible		
	
		-  less immediately effective
		-  resume simply visible
			 your resume is posted on job boards in the hjopes that a recruiter will find it
		-  reactive communication
			 you communicate with recruiters only after they have initiated contact

	jobseeker profiles
		-  one way to increase visibility is to create online job seeker profiles. we suggest you create what we call a visibility packet
			glassdoor jobseeker profile
			indeed.com jobseeker profile
			ziprecruiter.com jobseeker profile
			Dice.com

		-  what these do is create profiles on common websites that are searched
		  by recruiters as well as sourced from by employers and software tools
		  in the hiring process.

		-  the simple fact that you have profiles on these websites creates higher
		  level of visibility in your jobs search.

		-  this is only a "starter list" - you can add profiles on many other tech
		  specific or even general job seeker sites.
	job aggregator sites
		-  these profiles belong to a family of job sites call job aggregator sites
		-  having joseeker profiles out there is what helps to increase your visibility
		-  take time to at lease create the 4 previously mentioned profiles later today or this weekend

	what other activityes increase your visibility
		- with a specific employer?
			- follow their pages join their talent communities connect with their teams.
			attend their webinars

		- with a specific community?
			- introduce yourself and collaborate, speak, contribute to that community
			(common and simpler in slack and discord environments)

		- within a specific job space/hiring space?
			announce what you are looking for/respond to employers to reach out

	visibility elsewhere
		private professional communityes
		 - communities lecture
		linkedin
		 - turning on jobseeker visibility is a common resource on
		   linkedin profiles
		social media platforms
		 - hashtags, frequent posts and activity can h elp your brand
		   but also increase your searchability
		volunteer work
		 - many organizations will hire from their volunteer ranks or
		   have their leadership volunteer for the purpose of hiring
		   from the volunteer community

	active is key
		remember - continue to be active in your visibility efforts.
		  continued activity puts you at the top of search results,
		  lists, etc.

		beware - silence does not always mean something is wrong with
		  your visibility

		observe your responsiveness from recruiters - who is reaching
		  out? are you being contacted for sales roles while no longer
		  working in sales?
	
two weeks before program completion
	resume - you should have a recruiter ready resume

	linkedin - this should have been reviewd by a member of outcomes

	visibility packet - profiles on prominent job search

	slack community - you should be on and watching the jobs channel for after you graduate
	